# FCM Push Notification

CURL of API to send Firebase Push Notification. This API is used to send push notification to a single user (using token), to multiple users (using list of tokens) or to a group of users (using topic).

This CURL required an OAuth2.0 Access Token to work which is generated using your Service Account configuration.

Pre-Requisite:

1.  **Service Account Configuration (service-account.json)** -- Get from your Google Account if new or from your Backend team is existing. Once generated, it does not generate again.
2.  **Script** to hit remote API to generate the OAuth2.0 access token. (included: **fcm.sh**)
3.  Client like **Postman** to hit remote API to send the push notification.


### How to create `service-account.json`

 Go to Firebase Console → Select your project → On the left side menu hover to Settings → Cloud Messaging → Firebase Cloud Messaging API (V1) Note: Once generated, same key won’t be able to regenerate/ fetch again.

### Generate Access Token
From the root directory of this project, 
Run the shell script (fcm.sh) using `bash` command on your Terminal.

    bash fcm.sh

Access Token will be printed on the screen and will also be copied to the clipboard for convenience.

### FCM Send Message cURL

Import the following as a cURL to a client like Postman or simply import the postman collection provided in this package.

Note: Replace <YOUR OAUTH ACCESS TOKEN> in headers and <YOUR CLIENT DEVICE TOKEN> in body with your “Service Account’s Access Token” (generated by bash script on step 4) and Device Token (which you will get from client device’s firebase SDK) respectively.



        postman request POST 'https://fcm.googleapis.com/v1/projects/YOUR_PROJECT_ID/messages:send' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --header 'Authorization: Bearer <YOUR OAUTH ACCESS TOKEN>' \
      --body '{
      "message": {
        "token": "<YOUR CLIENT DEVICE TOKEN>",
        "apns": {
          "payload": {
            "aps": {
              "alert": {
                "title": "This is Title",
                "body": "This is Body"
              },
              "badge": 1,
              "sound": "notificationRinger.caf"
            }
          }
        },
        "data": {
          "title": "This is Title",
          "body": "This is Body",
          "notificationId": "92138756",
          "notificationTag": "new_Task",
          "android_notification_channel": "notificationRinger"
        }
      }
    }'


-----
By: Sahil Sharma
( sahilsharma93@gmail.com )
